Mean.
And let's start. So also, today's lecture
is very important among one of the
most important lectures in this course.
And believe me if you understand this topic.
Uh, you are. I mean ahead of a lot
of I mean programmers out there.
So if you, I mean work in the topics of
today's lecture and previous lecture.
I'm basically multiprogramming and forking.
It's very. Common use case in programming
and it's an advanced type of programming.
So the theme of today's lecture is from this.
One of the greatest movies,
Resident Evil by the pool, Anderson and
this scene is called Floating Zombie.
Have you seen this movie?
I'm pretty sure that most of
you have seen this.
Let's see how many of you saw this movie.
So send me feedbacks that
you've seen this movie.
You should. You should.
Basically the first, the first.
Addition of the movie.
You have to see that.
Are you play the game?
I think the game was before the movie.
But again, the the the first this movie.
I mean the Poland is on the 1st, I mean.
Episode of the movie is a great movie.
So I highly suggest you to
watch this movie this weekend,
so I hope that you already watch those.
I mean suggested movies.
I mean in the previous weekend.
But this is a great movie.
Honestly. I mean,
I would suggest you to watch this movie.
Uh, it has a lot of actually
a hard thing to watch.
You have to be plus 18 to watch
this movie because it has a lot of.
Uh, I mean uh, kind of,
uh, disgusting scenes.
But that's a brilliant movie,
so you'll see today that why
I chose this theme of today's
lectures based on this movie.
So, and, uh, today I mean this week's lab,
which we are at the week nine.
So the lab and the lecture
of this week is out.
Also, the keys for the 06 and
lecture 06 is also add.
The cheese is just next to the assignments,
so if you go to the same link that you
find the manual for the assignment,
you can see a key.
A new PDF file attached the same link.
Also the motors out also.
Cheese for a lab 04 and letter 04,
which was before the meeting.
I mean they're reading week.
So today hopefully we can finish the
process manager part of the kernel.
Uh, which is from the chapter
eight of the book process control,
and we leave other advanced topics
for your own study or in another
course which is called advanced.
Unix programming.
So we are in still in the process
manager part of the kernel and
one of the most important part
of the process manager is multi
processing or multi programming,
meaning that having just a single processor,
is it possible to get most
out of this single processor?
We said that if you have just a single
process, this process can wait for.
I mean,
I owe meaning that receiving input
from the user or receiving input
from other devices or the process
may send some information to a
device or terminal and then the
terminal should write it for you.
So it's kind of waiting for the
processor to read or write from
a terminal or device at these.
At this time, the processor must.
Either do the busy waiting or
it should go to a halt,
meaning that they stop executing anything.
So we said that I mean HLT instruction
issued by the kernel to the process to
stop the execution of the processor.
We said that this is a waste of processor.
We can share it with another process.
This is called processor sharing or
we can say that we are splitting the
time into some slices and then at
each time we give it a time slice
of the processor to a process.
When it sends these slices might be
one minute. Might be one second whatever.
So these are called Thomas slices.
We could say that we give ten times
slides off the processor to process a 20.
It slides to process piano, etc.
So I still have a single process.
You said that it's not that easy,
just simply give the processor
to another process.
We said that there should be
something called context switch
handled by the process manager.
In order to understand
why this context switch,
I gave you an example.
Assuming that we have only a single
chest for just one chess board.
And one set of chess pieces.
So, but we have two games.
Game A and game B.
So the idea is that while the
game being Magnus Carlson and his
coral waiting for the next move,
they are thinking about their next move.
We can borrow the chess board from them
and then we can continue with another
game day between me and Artie areas.
And then when we do the move while
we are waiting for the next move,
we are thinking about the next week.
We can bring it back to their
game and they can continue.
But the main problem is that the
position of the chess pieces must
be recollected or reposition to
the moment that the chess board
was borrowed or lent to somebody.
And this back in force.
If it happens very quickly.
I mean less than a second ten
microseconds or 100 nanoseconds.
From a human observer, I mean I we can.
It seems to us that it's 2 + 2 chess
board or two sets of chess pieces,
but in reality it is just one.
And the modern processors of the modern
workstation or personal computers.
Actually, they have only one processor,
one set of test for.
I mean test cases, but they are
handling thousands or more than that.
Processes inside a computer.
So basically it seems that you are
performing a chess competition among about.
1000 or 10,000 AH chess masters,
but using just a single chess board.
So as I mean the assume that these
chess boards are not exist in reality.
This is just one, but.
The problem in the kernel or the machine.
Switch is this chest for this,
so quickly that we cannot
distinguish that these are,
I mean multiple chess boards or just a single
test for that is given to the chess masters.
But back and forth.
And this is a famous quote by the
Ben Larson greatest chess match in.
I think it wasn't 70s basically
says I mean normal people should
see Naples before they die,
but Chessmaster should win.
Uh, yeah,
it's called we're gonna see it.
So I mean part of Seaside,
part of the Netherland.
It is famous for performing.
I mean test competition.
Anyways,
that's that's the idea that I
mean how hard and how complex
the process sharing is handled
by the process manager.
We don't discuss more
about context switching.
I leave it to the course
operating system for you.
You can read the bad context
switch in that course.
But the main problem here is that now that
we know we can get most out of the processor.
How can we create a new process?
How can we have multiple
processes inside the memory?
So we said that a process
can do a system called 4,
which is in Unix standard header files.
So it's a system call and ask the
kernel to create a new child or
basically give birth to a newborn process.
It's very simple,
it simply doesn't have any input argument,
just simply for,
but the return value is very important
and based on the return value,
we can distinguish that this
process is a child process.
Or patent process?
Why is that?
Because we said that the child process.
Is exactly a copy of the parent.
It's a clone.
So.
There should be an existing process that does
the system called to create new new process.
This is called the parent process and the
newborn process is called the child process.
But these are exactly clones of each other.
So, and this is the runtime.
A analysis of the fork system called.
So I did some fix to my slides in
order to showcase this process better.
So at first we have a single process,
so this code segment and the other
segments loaded with straps into the
memory at some point of the code
segment you do this system called. 4.
So when you do this system called four.
Basically,
you're calling a process manager
to create a new child for you.
What happens is that the process manager.
Make it exact copy bit by bit from the
whole segments of the parent and put
it inside another part of the memory.
So you see here the process
manager create the exact copy
inside another part of the memory.
And this is a copy because whatever
the child process changes,
for instance, if changed zero to 1.
It does and doesn't have an impact
to the product process in patent
process it is still 0 available.
Or if the patent process makes 02,
for instance 5, it doesn't have any
impact to the data segment of the child,
so these are just copy of each other.
And then if you zoom inside the code
segment of each process, child and parent.
We see that.
The process manager, when it does the copy.
This is one of the amazing system called.
So far, any system call returns only
one single value to a single process.
But the 4th system call is a
very exceptional system called.
It returns true value in two
different process.
So it returns zero at the child process.
So as you can see here,
when the process manager
wants to return a value,
it returns two values.
It returns 0 for the child process,
but it returns the PID of the
child inside the parallel process.
So the child PID goes to the pattern,
zero goes to the chart and based on
the return value we can distinguish
that we are inside the child
process or the parrot process.
So here is an example and I
mean more zoom inside the code.
So at the 4th part of the chart we
receive zero at the four part of
the parent will receive a non zero
value which is the PID of the child.
So now what's happened?
We have two processes inside memory.
We have one single process processor.
So we have to share the process process it.
So if you are fair.
We uh, share the processor.
One is lies to the parent,
one is lies to the child.
So we give 1S ties to the parents.
So the pattern receives the PID of the child.
And then we give one a slice to the child
and the child received the return value 0.
And then we keep another time,
a slide to the parent.
The parent got the opportunity to
execute the opcode of this track.
So 13 is not equal to minus one.
This fall condition becomes false and
then just right after this opcode or
we give another slice to the process.
So basically we get the processor from
the parent and we give it to the child
because it just one is time slots.
For the processor.
So now the child has one slice of the time,
a slice of the processor,
so the child can have this
opportunity to check this check in.
So zero is not equal to minus one.
So again this condition becomes false,
meaning that the creation of the
child process is successful.
Then it doesn't go inside the if
because this condition for both
parent and child is not successful.
And then we give, we bring it back,
the processor to the pattern.
We give one time slice. So here.
The child the PID is 13 so it
is greater or equal than zero.
It becomes true. And then.
It does one opcode, so it's done.
We get the processor from the
patent we give it to the child.
So the child had the opportunity
to do the checking,
so zero is greater or equal than zero.
So it becomes true.
And then we give it back to the
parent one time one time slice.
So the parent checks whether
the 15 is greater than zero,
so it becomes true and then
we give it back to the child.
So the child checks this condition 0 is
not greater than zero, it becomes false.
So you see the difference.
When the parent does the checking,
it becomes true.
The same up code,
but when the child does the comparison,
the comparison becomes false.
So you see, these two different processes.
Execute the same opcode,
but at runtime the condition
value is different.
So now we give back the
processor into the parent.
Because the patent this condition is true,
it goes inside the if and I mean print
out I'm the parent and here's my PID.
However, if we bring back to processor
to the child, the child, this was false.
So it doesn't go inside the if.
It goes to the L spot and
instead print out on the child.
And here is my PID.
You see, although the code was written
inside the code segment of the parent,
but at runtime the parent never
reaches that part of the code,
only the child can reach is this one.
And then we bring it back.
The processor to the parent, the parent.
This condition was true.
It prints is that this print out.
I'm the parent and now the next statement is.
It never reached out the L spot
because the condition was true,
so it goes to the end of this.
If block and then the next
statement is just simply accept.
Successfully. And when it exists,
it exists in memory, so it's done.
It terminated by the current,
so it exited the system called the kernel,
meaning that I'm done free of the
memory free of the file descriptors
or whatever do they clean up and
then remove it from the memory.
But now we bring it back.
The processor to the child.
The child reaches the second
statement print my parent ID is this?
So it reaches the get PID
to print out the parent ID,
but there is no parent.
The parent is already gone.
So this is called an orphan child,
meaning that although it had a parent
but the parent exists from the
memory and there's no parent anymore.
So when there is no parents,
we have a kernel as the Godfather
or godmother of all the processes
inside the memory.
The kernel adopts the child,
the orphan child.
The only process that is allowed
to adopt A child is the Colonel.
Other processes can create new child,
but they cannot adopt A child,
but Colonel can adopt A child.
So it means that basically it
changed the PID or patent process
ID of the child and stuff instead
of having the true parent ID,
it changes to the kernels process ID.
So you know what is the Chinese process ID?
Anybody has any idea about
the PID after kernel?
Yes, Milan says correct.
The idea of the kernel by assumption
by I mean definition is 1.
And all the process ID's are
greater than one. So basically it
changes the PID of the child to one,
meaning that now I'm your parent.
And then here the child prints out.
One is love the true parent ID.
And then.
When it prints out this,
so it comes here and then it
comes here and then.
It reaches this statement exact zero.
You see,
this is the statement that is executed
by the parents and also by the child.
So this statement is reachable
by both of them because if both
has these blocks of effect,
else it reaches the same lines of
code and then the child exists.
And both of them are done successfully,
although the child becomes the orphan,
but the channel becomes the Godfather
and finishes the child successfully.
And now the memory space is empty.
Only the camera and the shell
is inside the memory.
So. It might be a little bit confusing for
you like this scene of the Resident Evil.
Uh, When the main character
actually woke up in the hospital.
In order to this is because the
first time that you are tracing.
True process at the same time when
we have multi programming environment
or multi processing environment.
Before today's lecture,
we assume only one process.
As a result, when you trace a process,
you know that this is the only process
and opcode sequentially around half one.
After that each other.
But now you have two processes
or more than two process.
Each one is receiving its
time slot software process.
So you have to keep track of the last
position or the last of pull up each process.
And, uh, that's the same way as when
we land or borrow a chess board.
So that's the context which happens
between the parent and the child process.
So now I'm ready to take your questions
and I'm glad that there are some questions.
Uh, meaning that you're trying
to understand this.
And you're paying attention,
so, Kaden says, we have.
Cadence sorry,
I'm a little bit confused why one of them
returns 15 and one of them returns 0.
So this is the definition of
the fork system called.
So let me back to the.
Call 4.
So when you ask the kernel to create
a new child for you, it cannot return.
Two numbers.
Because right after executing
the four by the kernel for you,
we have two processes.
It returns 0.
To the child process and it
determines PID of the child,
which is a non zero.
413 is an example of the PID for
the child to the parent.
Why?
Because these two processes are
exactly copy of each other,
so let me go back here.
So these two processes are exactly the same,
so if they go in front of a mirror,
how can they tell that?
I'm the parent or I'm the child.
The only way that they can distinguish
themselves based on whether they
are parent or child is based on
the return value of the four.
So if one of them, for instance,
if I don't know which one is child,
and I don't know which one is parent.
I do they fork also I don't
know who did the fork.
For instance, maybe this part does the form.
Or maybe this part does that for.
Assuming that I don't know who did the four,
how can I tell that which one is pattern?
Which one is the child?
The only way is that.
This one, the process manager.
If says zero to a process,
that process becomes the child.
And if it sends the PID of the trial to you,
it means that you are the parent.
That's the only way to distinguish
two pieces of process.
Makes sense,
kaden.
Great.
So we have Victor Hi created by the
full movies, had a PID of zero.
I believe yes yeah,
actually Victor says the same.
Hey Sam has a question why the
parent process is killed while the
patent jumps to the exit statements.
It exhibits statement if there
is still a child process.
So let me die to the code line. So.
I believe I have the code line here here so.
Uh, can you? So I have to a little bit zoom.
So here is the. Here is the uh,
exact copy of code in the chart,
and here is the exact copy of
the code inside the parrot.
So you see, in the code we say that
if something if it is true goes to
the inside the if otherwise goes
the next statement and then here
if something happens inside this.
If after this checking it goes,
it reaches this line.
Whether it's a parent or it's a child.
So we said that both of them,
this checking is true because in the child.
PIV is zero child PID zero,
so zero is greater equal than zero.
It goes inside the if.
And whatever happens inside the if,
after that they reached this next statement.
So if clause is done,
So what is next article?
Also here in the parents.
This condition is checked,
so this is true because the parent
process received a non zero non zero
is greater than zero and those inside
the whatever inside Dave is when it's done.
So we finished the if clause and goes in
next line and the next line is exact 0.
It's not killed.
It basically says that I'm done
and I want to finish the program.
It's not killed.
So both of them at the end of the day
they ask the kernel that we are done.
So please remove us from the
memory and clean up other stuff.
Makes sense missile.
You are right.
You are saying that why the,
uh,
parents?
You are saying that why the
parent doesn't wait for the child?
Because these are two processes,
whoever does the exit finishes and actually
removed from the is removed from the memory.
So that's that's the way it is.
For instance, uh, that's the way it is.
So we will study how to ask
the parents do not exist.
Wait for your child and
then exit will discuss that.
But based on this pattern.
These are two separate processes and at
anytime they can simply return or exit.
As a process.
Hi, process is a process or whatever in
normal process can do a child process
can do a patent processes also process
whatever a normal process can do.
The parent process can be.
So Victor says out of curiosity,
if the parent code contains the fork and
the child is an exact copy of the parent,
then it would also contain the 4th, correct?
So why is this stopping a cascade of forks
from being created by each subsequent child?
Is the focal with independent nested?
Uh, within conditional statements that stop a
child from being able to invoke another 4000.
That's it. That's a very good question.
Maybe that's because because of my slide.
So. The four.
Only calls by the parents.
So I would say that the child
doesn't do the four.
Although it has the op code of the Code
of the Four, but it doesn't do that.
The pattern does because at this moment.
At this moment the parents send the
signal or send a system called to
the Colonel and ask for a new child.
So there is no child yet.
When the Colonel creates the child.
So then we have the child,
then it returns zero to the child.
So fork is done once by the parent only.
So let me back you this
slide it's better so here.
So the forks,
although the codex is a this one is better.
At this moment we have only
the parent process.
The patent process does the 4th.
Does only the parent process?
And then the process manager received
the system called and it creates.
Now it creates the child process.
So the code segment exactly have the
copy of the code segment of the parents.
Although it has a lot of lines but
it's not reachable by the child.
Some part of that code is not reachable.
So let me back here, let me do it again.
So you see here, this is the child process,
so it has these lines, I mean main printf.
I'm on lonely process and also the
fault but it never reached these lines.
It has it, but never reaches that line.
You might be smart and you may do some
malicious stuff, meaning that inside.
Part of the opcode that the child reaches.
You can do some jumps to those part of the
OP code that is not reachable by the child.
That's another trick you can do that.
That's a good question.
But normally,
although the child has these opcodes,
but it never reaches those lines.
Makes sense, victor.
So fork is only done by the parent, yeah?
But having said that, uh,
at the let me go back to the next slide.
Come back here.
So in this slide.
This is the part of the
opcodes that the child reaches.
This is the up code you can
put any opcode in this area.
For instance, you can do another 4 here.
But this port is happening by the
child process to create another child
and this child becomes a grandchild.
Because you have a parent,
you have a child and you have a child
for the child, so it becomes grandchild.
Actually this is a question in the
lecture assignment that is it possible
to have the grandchildren or not?
This is.
Totally different from the first part.
This fork is done by the parents
so the child doesn't call this,
but this fork is inside the OP
code that is reachable by the
children post child process.
So it is done by the child and can
create another children off the child
process which becomes a grandchild.
Oh no, no, let's leave it as a,
uh, I won't answer that.
So Michelle says that if.
We have a grandchild here.
What would be the PID of this
grandchild and what would be the
return value of the kernel by
four that is called by the child?
So this is a good question,
so I leave it for you to write
a code and see you have to write
the code and see what would
be the PID of the grandchild.
That's a good example.
A good question.
OK so I will continue a little.
Uh, uh, and then I will answer
your question in the next round.
So keep your questions or maybe in
the next few slides I will answer
your questions, but if I didn't,
if I don't answer your question,
just raise your question again
and I will answer your questions.
This is a very important part of this course,
so if you have,
I mean you have to ask a lot of question
and I try my best to answer your questions.
So as you see, so far, uh?
This is a process that we can create
a new process so we have a single
process parent and then we give birth
to a newborn process and this newborn
process can do another fork and
give another grandchild and attach.
So.
This is the one of the naive or kind of
immediate pattern to create a new process,
because it's a generative model.
So basically most of the programmers may
follow this pattern of creating a new child.
Basically writing those if else clauses.
So the idea is this.
Inside the pattern process,
when we write a program.
We write the programs,
opcodes and statements not only
for the parent process itself.
Model so we write the opcodes that
is going to be handled by the child.
So the parent carries the task of
itself and the child.
However,
at runtime this is at the compile time,
so at compile time the
parent has all the opcodes,
whether it is for itself or for the child.
At one time the parent does the 4th
and then by those if else clauses
passes the child task to the child.
So let's see the model.
I mean very similar code that we've
seen so far, but this is this.
On the I mean abstract model.
So here is the pattern of most of
the programs that wants to do a task
by a child process or creating A4.
So for instance, we have a lot of
opcode before the four, whatever.
They're all just by the parent and at
some point the parent does the fork.
The parent based on this value should
check first at whether the creation
of a new child was successful or not.
Maybe with the kernel doesn't
allow you to create a child.
Maybe the kernel doesn't
have enough space of memory,
so it cannot create a new child for you,
so you have to always as a
parent check whether the.
It was, I mean,
the creation of the child was
successful or an abortion happened.
If you cannot have a child
or an abortion happens,
you have to do that, ask yourself.
So you have to do those tasks that you
were so you wanted to give to the child.
Now you have to do it yourself because
there is no chance to have a child.
However, if it is successful,
it is greater or equal than zero.
If it is greater than zero,
meaning that we are inside
the patent process.
So whatever tasks that you want to
do by the patent you write it here.
He said that the patent carries the
task of the child in the earth part,
meaning that if the child PID is zero,
so the else means that if it is
greater than, equal than zero.
If it is not greater than zero,
so it is zero, so you put all
the opcodes that is going to
be executed by the child here.
So you see, we write a single program.
The right post OP codes for
the parents and for the child.
But at runtime these lines of code
can be reachable by the child
process and these lines of codes
can be reachable by the parent.
This area. Also reachable by both.
Because if the parent task is done,
if all these lines of code is
done so the if clause is done
and send goes to the next line,
which is here. Also the child.
If the child does all these opcodes,
it is done and it goes here.
So these are the tasks that
is going to be executed by
both the child and the parent.
All the above lines are not going
to be executed by the child,
only the parent. This is the model.
I mean the way that you split the
task between yourself and your child.
So now. Let's see what happens at runtime.
As a programmer,
you may sometimes think that OK.
Both parent and Child receives processor
based on time slices or time shares.
So you may do an assumption.
You may say that OK,
their parent receives one slice,
the child missing one slice,
and then another response for
parents and others like football.
The idea is that no, you can't.
You cannot have any assumption about.
A context switch and about a
giving a processor to a process.
So no assumption.
Sometimes basically the kernel is the God
and acts whatever the kernel wants to do,
so you shouldn't do any assumption.
Sometimes the kernel gives
20 slides to the parent,
just one slice of processor to the child.
Sometimes the reverse happens,
one is lost to the parent.
Handysize to their child.
So you don't have to assume
anything about the time sharing or
process scheduling or processes,
I mean assignment.
So now that here is an example.
If.
After the 4th.
The has the kernel gives higher priority to
the parents because the kernel likes parents,
for instance.
So what happens is that the kernel,
the parent received the processor
for one hour, so it has enough
time to do all these statements.
So it does this chat.
It is false because it has a child,
so it doesn't go inside the if
and then goes the next statement.
This is true and then comes here.
This is true because this is the
pattern they receive number 13,
so it goes here.
It prints out this and
then goes here and exists.
That's it. Now we have a child which
is orphan and now the only single
process that inside the memory.
So the kernel says that now that
we don't have any other process.
So give the process.
I mean here is the processor
run your statements as a child.
And the child's give the
processor and execute.
So we already saw this is the
orphan child and the kernel
adopts it to finish successfully.
So the idea is that. How?
We can't avoid having orphan child.
Without having any assumption
about processor assignment.
So based on the generative model
we saw or we are trying to fix that
model in order to avoid orphan child.
This is Amit.
These are just patterns.
You may say that this is not true.
This is false. These are patterns,
meaning that programmers,
after years of programming they proposed a
model that is safe to create a new child.
You can do whatever you want,
but these are best patterns
or best practices,
meaning that you may say that no from
my case I want to do another type
of generating a process that's OK,
so these are just OP codes.
You can do whatever you want,
but these patterns are is already proved
or shown that there are, for instance,
a good pattern to create a new process,
meaning that you cannot have orphan,
child and etc.
So the first.
This pattern here is this.
Actually,
this is proposed by by myself
and you can see that I mean the
same idea in the I mean other any
system level programmers as well.
So the idea is that.
In the same part of the else that we
put the Chinese task. We say that.
The child should do the its own exit.
Instead of reaching the part that
does the exit from the parent,
we said that this part is going to
be reachable by the child as well.
We want to avoid that.
We want to say that if the
child does the tasks.
It should does the exit itself.
It shouldn't reach the point of the
opcode that exists from the pattern.
So we add always we add an exit
system called at the last statement
dedicated to the child tax.
Another part is this.
We can avoid this check in or we can do that.
It's optional,
but we move all the tasks or
opcode or statements that we want.
The pattern does those statements.
We move it right after the
statement if statements this block.
We guarantee that the child
never reaches this part because
the child does exist here.
So the last statement of the child and
exact so it never existed the lines here.
So then we guarantee that these
lines of code gonna be executed
by the parents and then we put
the exit here and we have exit for
apparent we have exit for the child.
Again, as a reminder,
all these codes are in one single program.
As a parent,
so we said that the patent carries
the task for the child carried
the task for itself,
but at runtime the task for the
child is reachable by the child only,
not by the parent.
If you try this and you trace
these two as a parent and child
the same way I did in this slide,
you'll see that it's still
you're gonna have orphan child.
It's very simple.
If you give higher priority to the parent,
the parent does. This check in.
Does this check in this is
true and then goes here.
Does this task exists?
So the parent is gone and now the
child received the processor and
then this does this check in?
Does it checking this is false comes
here and does this tasks and that exists.
So at some point you have a orphan child
that exists after the exit of the parent.
So this is the idea proposed by Mesa exactly.
So we can.
Do we can avoid the parents?
To wait before except.
So although we have some tasks to the
pattern for the parent to execute,
we say that after your task is done
as a parent, do not simply exist.
Wait,
take the responsibility for your
child and then if your child is
done then you are allowed to exist.
So again, this is a pattern.
As a programmer,
you may forget to put this part
as a programmer, you may,
I mean intentionally,
for I mean do not put this part.
This is a pattern.
I mean,
we say that it is good to follow
this pattern.
This way we avoid having the orphaned child.
So here is another brilliant scene.
This is the opening scene
of the Resident Evil, uh?
I mean, it's still.
The same confusion that you may
have right now dealing with trial.
I mean multiple processes.
So how aparent can wait?
Up until the child finishes the tasks.
So there is a system called called Wait.
In another I mean kind of weird
header file sys forward slash.
With that edge you have to
include this header file.
Basically this is a request
by the parent to the kernel.
And says that as a parent,
I want to temporarily halt or
I want to temporarily sleep.
And please wake me up or please
let me know when my child is
done and then I can continue the
execution of the other opcodes.
So you remember that a kernel can
issue the HLT or halt instruction
to the processor to stop the
execution of the process?
The same actually can happen
by the kernel to a process.
So the kernel can stop the
execution of the process,
but this is happened not
from the kernel side.
This is happened by the
request of the process itself.
So the process sends a wait
signal to the kernel.
And they ask the Colonel that
please stop my execution.
What does this mean? It means that.
The process as the kernel do not
give me the processor anymore.
So what the holfer process means that?
I don't want processor anymore.
I want to sleep so I don't want
to execute any opcode.
So very very simple.
I mean, I mean I mean command.
The Colonel says that,
OK,
I don't give you the processor
anymore up until something happens
up until your child is finished.
So this is a very simple request
by the process.
For the process is not just
saying holding a process,
we say that blocking the process
so the terminology is different.
You block the kernel,
block the process,
but it holds the processor.
And here is the system called. Wait?
The input argument is that it's a pointer.
To a location of memory.
As of type integer and this
value is the exit value.
All of the child, so it's going to
have the exit value of the child.
So when the parent process
does this system call,
it passes the path to this location.
And then it goes into sleep,
temporary sleep or block estate.
And wait for the child.
When the child finishes.
The kernel wakes up the parent and
returns the idea of the child.
And inside this location puts
the exit value of the child
may if it is 0 means that the
child was successfully finished.
If it is non zero,
for instance one meaning that your child
finishes but was not successful finish.
Here is an example.
This same example,
so in the left we have the parent
in the right we have the child.
If the pattern have higher priority
and give all the processor so it
does all these checking up until
here it prints out this and then goes
to this statement which are these?
I mean they all the opcodes
or the task of the parent.
After doing all the tasks,
we said that parents should,
we don't say must should as the
best pattern wait for the child.
When the parent does this.
It goes to his sleeping or blocking
state and then so basically means
that I don't want any processor
or time slice of the processor.
So the kernel accepts this request,
doesn't give any process as a result,
meaning that the pattern stops here.
And now we have a process which is
sleeping or which doesn't need any processor,
so the processor goes to the child.
The child received the processor.
Does this check in goes to
this owner statement?
Does all the tasks that
is assigned to the child.
It does its own exit and it
says I'm finished successfully.
When it does that, it is system called.
It sends to the kernel.
Charles says that the kernel that
I'm done and my exit code is 0,
meaning that I'm successfully done.
The Colonel.
Goes to the parents and says that wake up.
Your child is finished and
it's finished either.
I mean successfully or unsuccessfully
and this is a signal that cannot
sense to the apparent said child,
and it puts the exact status of the
child in that location. In this location.
So this variable becomes 0.
And then right after that parents wakes up,
meaning that the kernel gives the
processor to the parent and the parent
can does the next statements of the code.
So the next is exit and the
parents actually finishes.
You see here.
There is no orphan child anymore
because the Pannwitz.
However, if we said that we don't have
to assume any process assignment by the
kernel processor assignment by the kernel.
What happens if? The child receives
the higher priority, we don't know.
So let's see if the channel likes child
processes and give high priority to
the child. In this case, the child.
Receive all the processor.
Receive 00 is not minus one, it is false.
It doesn't go inside. So it doesn't go here.
Goes the next statement.
It is zero is greater than zero. It's true.
It comes here it's not greater than zero.
It becomes false.
So it doesn't go inside,
so it goes the else part. It writes this.
You can put any other tasks here.
You can ask the child to buy you a milk.
You can ask the child to go.
For instance, take a cab for you or whatever
task you want to assign to a child, I mean.
You can ask the child to do a very
complicated I mean computation for you.
And then when the child is done.
It says that I'm done successfully
and I want to accept.
So it sends this signal to
the kernel says that I'm done.
The kernel that's a kind of,
I mean sounds stupid from the kernel,
but it if you think more you
will understand the logic.
The Keller says that, OK,
I want to wake up the parent.
They cannot go through a list that
all the sleeping parents are there.
And looks for the parents of this child,
but it doesn't see any pattern for
this child in a blocking state or
in a sleeping state. So basically.
The Colonel is confused.
Basically it says that I cannot
find a parent in a blocking or
sleeping state to wake up for you.
So then the choice is that OK,
I I need to pass my exit status to a parent.
But although the parent is inside the memory.
But because it it's not in the
sleeping state and blocking
state the cannons confused here.
So you may come up with a better idea,
but that's the way it the Unix kernel works.
So the unique scanner says that
this type of child that finishes.
Before the parent goes,
the blocking state is called zombie.
And that's the theme of today's lecture.
So as zombie Child is a child that finishes.
Sooner. Before the parent goes to the
black mistake or is sleeping instead?
So finishes before the pants wait.
What happens is that.
This is this is type of a process that the
kernel cannot say that I want to adopt you.
This is not the orphan child
because it has a parent,
so that kinda says that I cannot
adopt you as an orphan child.
I cannot do anything for you.
You have a parents and your parents.
You have to wait up until
your parent does the weight.
Or goes to blocking state and then I can wake
the parents up and then you can get rid of.
I mean you can terminate successfully
and it's I mean remove from the memory.
So.
Basically,
says the Kenneth says that I have to wait.
I keep you inside the memory and
I give processor to the parent to
reach this statement for the weight.
This is a very critical moment.
If the parent forgets to do the wait,
or if you intentionally as a
programmer do not do wait,
the zombie child stays inside
the memory forever.
Be careful about that.
So Orphan Child is much less dangerous
because they cannot adopt soften
child and finish the child for you.
But Zombie child they can actually
do not accept any responsibility.
It says that you have a parent.
Your parents should take the responsibility.
I don't care, I mean,
your parent doesn't do the weight.
So zombie is actually very,
uh, I mean bad, uh, for.
In memory because they waste the memory
space they are staying in the memory.
So the only way to get rid of the
zombie is that the kernel gives
the processor to the parent.
And the processor, I mean the parents,
does the oldies checking etc.
And at the final step at some point received.
The way I mean calls the weight
system called. At this moment.
This weight is not blocking
because the child is already done.
After this call, right after this call,
the Colonel says that you don't have
to go into sleeping or blocking mode
because your child is already done.
You have to dust the call only
for formality just for formality.
And then I passed this zero.
To this location of the memory and
then do not block and continue.
And it continues.
So you see that. In this pattern.
Uh, there is a chance that the.
Child process finishes sooner
than the weight of the parents,
so it may stay for a very little
while as a zombie.
But if you follow this pattern correctly,
at some point the parent reaches
the weight system called and the
zombie child becomes a normal child
and finishes successfully and the
parent finishes after their child.
So I hope that I could explain for you so.
This is a very beautiful
scene of the Resident Evil.
I mean the laser room.
It needs I mean plus 18,
but it's a brilliant scene of the
movie and if you see this scene.
You may feel like that, I mean.
Yes, this is complex.
I mean I could try to explain it.
I mean I clearly,
but I mean this generation of a new
child and then avoiding the orphan
child and avoiding zombie child.
If you follow this pattern,
you would avoid it.
Otherwise you end up with some
situation that they cannot handle it.
So now we have some time for questions.
So we have.
Power now is what is the purpose
of using food in our code?
What do we actually use for it?
Right after this I I will
explain some example,
I mean true example that you will
understand why we create a child,
I mean by for King I will explain.
I mean when I say child's task,
what are those tasks?
I will explain more.
We have a.
Mason asked, can we have an example of
patent process that ways to be executed
until child versus done? Screening.
Zombie child happens when we add the exit
for child and don't include the weeds.
Independent, yes, actually.
Zombie child, as the child wants to exist.
Uh, but this exit happens before the
parent reaches the weight system called.
So it happens a lot,
but zombies are OK as long as the parent
reaches the weight system called.
If the patent forgets,
or at some point the patent crashes
or killed and the parent never
reaches the weight the zombies states
are stays at the memory forever.
So it is OK to have a child exist
sooner than the weight of the
parent and the state for some very
quick moment as a zombie.
But at some point the pan reaches the
weight and then the child exits successful.
Oh, Ben asks that when the child has
priority, the parent regains control of the
processor when the child is waiting to exit.
Yes, true, because there is no other
statement for the child to execute.
Although the child has the higher priority,
it does all these statements up until here.
So even if you give more processor to
the chart, there is no statement for
the child to execute, so it stays here.
I mean, uh, I mean it.
It loses the high priority because
there is no need for higher priority.
There's no more statement. So child waits.
And then the processor gonna be assigned
to other processes by the kernel.
One of them is the parent.
Yeah, so although the child
had the higher priority,
but there is no statement to execute.
So let me give you some example.
Now you may understand.
I mean in the real context why we
need to create a new child and why
we need to follow this pattern.
Here is an example. We want to add 2 numbers.
And we want to subtract 2 numbers so there
are two tasks very similar to the lab 0.
I mean, uh, last week labs which you
are going to submit this Wednesday.
So we we want to give two numbers
to a program and we want to do
math operation here two operations
addition and subtraction.
We want the pattern does the addition
and the child does the subtraction.
So following based on the generative Model 1.
So inside the parents you just simply
accept two numbers from the input argv
one or grade two, and make it an integer.
So you already done it into our lab.
And then you want to pass
the addition to yourself,
but the subtraction to the child.
So you do a fork.
And then based on our father, we have to
check whether we have the child or not.
If we don't have the child.
You have to not only does the addition,
but also does this subtraction.
In Lab 09 I put some example about this.
I mean if we couldn't have a child you
have to do all the tasks ourselves.
If you are successful and we have a child,
you have to do the checking
whether it's greater than zero or
equal to zero the return value.
If it is great and has zero meaning that
we are in the parent process and these
lines going to be reached by the parent,
so you can simply write out
we are in the parent and you.
I mean just simply print out your PID.
And then the else part not going
to be reached by the parent because
the this is true.
So if this is true,
never we go to the L spot.
So it goes to the.
This line this line actually,
which is the last statement
which goes to this line.
And here we do the task which is
going to be done by the parent.
So we say that a B is a + B.
So we print out this sum.
And then this is very critical, we wait.
Because we do the addition,
but we have to wait for the
child to do the subtraction.
So we wait.
In the exact copy of the process,
the child right after he receives 0.
The child does the checking.
It is not minus one,
so it doesn't go inside this earth.
It does this checking.
This is true for the child.
This condition is false.
Because 0 is not greater than zero,
it doesn't go inside this part.
It goes the else part for the child.
And now the choices that I'm the child.
I wanna do this subtraction.
So basically this is a typo.
It should be minus it says that a
Bab and prints out the subtraction.
So this way you split two tasks,
one by yourself,
one by your child.
There is another way of executing
task by the child which I am saying I
called this generative model process 2.
So in this case. We say that parents.
It still carries the task of itself.
However, instead of writing all
the tasks for the child and put it
in the else block of the child.
Instead, it just gives the path.
To a program file.
That contains the tasks of child.
So this way the parents
actually freeze itself.
I mean frees itself from writing
the task of the child. Say that, OK,
I only write a task for myself for the child,
I give a path to the child and I'll
tell the child that go there and
execute those statements in that location.
So that this way the chair is
the parent is much more lighter.
The patent does the fork.
And then created child and passed the
path of that program to the child.
The child does exacution system call.
You already saw execution in the lab 08.
If you haven't seen that, uh,
you have to read the manual and become
familiar with the execution, a system called.
So let's see what happens in this scenario.
In this scenario,
exactly the same as the previous one.
So we have. The child part.
We have the patent pod followed by a weight.
Each one has its own exit exit
for the parent exit for the child.
But for the child part,
instead of just putting the. Lines of.
Code for the tasks of the child.
I'm saying to the child that these opcodes
or these statements are in some other file.
Other program files simply open that
program file and execute that program file.
It's much more, uh,
I mean lighter and cheaper for the parents.
This could be a program file
that is written by Hussein.
This could be a program file that
is written by, for instance Riley.
And etc. They patent says that.
I don't know what are these program,
I just wanted to.
I want to do the task written by the Hussein.
I want you to do the task written
by the writing and etc.
So here is an example for that.
Assuming that we have the same two numbers.
And we want to do the addition
and great common divisor.
Great common divisor.
Anybody of you know what
is great common divisor?
From math DCD what's the GCD of two numbers?
Any idea? Guys wake up.
Yes, Victor says that the largest number
that can divide both into whole numbers.
Ah, yes, actually the largest number
that if we divide these two numbers
by that number, the remainder is 0.
For our kids, I don't know.
Honestly, actually, uh.
I mean it's been about 10 years that
I've used TCD so I have only the idea.
I know the idea, but anything anyways.
So we want to do the addition by the parent.
But we want the child do that dog.
The child may say that it's not
fair that you do this simple task,
but you want me as a child.
To the I mean the hard task
which I have no idea about.
But the pattern says that.
Don't worry, you don't have.
I don't have to write the GCD code for you.
Also, you don't have to
write the code yourself.
The only thing is that we already
have the program that does that.
You have to simply execute that.
And here is the code honestly.
Actually I've.
I mean I went to this online URL.
Which I mean this part of I changed a
little bit, but this is the reference,
so even myself may not have any idea about
how to calculate the DC of two numbers.
So I went to the Internet search.
This part of the code I changed a little
bit and assume that this is right.
This is written by a person at this
website called for instance Riley.
So we received this.
We compile it and we run it to
make sure that everything is OK.
So if you pass two numbers 105 and
20 DTC of two numbers are fine.
So now we have a code or
program file that does that.
So now. As a parent,
you want to do the GCD and the addition.
But you want to do the simple task yourself.
The addition but the hardest tasks you
want to give it to the child, but the
code is already written by other person.
So what you do is that in the child part.
You asked the child.
To open the program for you, pass the
path of that program file to the child,
and then you tell the child to open it.
Past the arguments.
These two are from the parents,
so you receive it from the argv of the
parent, so you pass it to the trial.
And then you ask the child to execute the,
uh, I mean that program file.
This system called file execution
with the environment.
You have seen it in in the lab.
08 So read the Manor 08 about
this system call.
And then, uh.
When it calls the program file
for the so that program file is
executed for these two numbers
and they returned an immediate
result going to be in the terminal.
For itself the parent.
Basically received the the first
two numbers from the shell.
Make it integer and thus the addition.
And then this is very important weights.
Because it should wait up until the
child open the program file for the CD.
Execute the for the two numbers.
Print out the result and then does the exit.
And when it does that, the parent wakes up,
receive the success exists access of the
child as zero, and then exits itself.
And here is the zoom part of the.
I mean the child part.
These lines of code are not going
to be reachable by the parents
because they are in the else part,
meaning that the return value of
default is zero in this part.
And as you can see here,
we open the program file which is
compiled already as a read only.
And this is the file descriptor for the file.
And then we say that we want to pass
the argument to this program file.
The first argument is always said that the
Argv Zero is always the name of the file.
Program file argv.
One of the two which is the two parameters to
that program file borrowed from the parent.
In the lab 08, we said that why you have
to pass on all in the last argument.
And then you called the system called
for the file descriptor that you opened.
This is the argument, and you're right.
And here is the result.
You see here in the result, if you run it,
you have to pass two numbers.
105 and 200.
You see that the lines of code
by the parent is executed first,
printed out first,
meaning that they cannot gives more
processor first to the processor
to their parents.
So the pattern says that I'm a
lonely process and then I become the
parent and then does the addition.
But the right after this addition,
what was the line the line was
wait right after this addition?
The line was wait. So it waits.
Wait, wait,
it causes sleeping state of blocking
state and the processor goes to the child.
The child says that I'm the child
as part opens the file and this is
the file descriptor #3 and then
it executes that program file.
You see the same output as
when you run that program file.
Uh, individually. But one thing
you can see here is that the.
Process ID of the child and the
process ID of the program file that is
opened by the child is exactly the same.
What happens here?
The idea is that when a process
executes another program file,
no new process is generated.
Basically, the process here the
child and bats the program file of
that program file inside itself.
So this is this is a huge difference
between four and execution.
In the fourth you have a new child,
but in the execution there is no process.
Basically you empty yourself and you invite
that program file to occupy yourself.
And here's happens at runtime.
So if you have a parent and a child.
When the child executes,
basically calls a system called to do the
execution and points the program file.
The process manager basically empties.
All the segments of the child,
so all these segments are just becomes zero,
and then the program files at this.
Path.
Goes inside the same space as the child.
So there is no process. No new process.
As a result, there is no PID.
It's still we have the child process,
but the whole content is replaced by the
program file that is executed by the child.
And this is the same idea behind the
this movie The Alien movie by the Ridley
Scott and this is a chestburster scene.
Basically that alien.
Goes inside the body of the human
individuals and occupies all these cells.
And also I mean body parts
of the human individual.
This is exactly the same when the
child or any process execute a
program file by system called exact.
So when it process tells the kernel
that I want to execute a program file.
The Colonel empties that process.
And fills it with the program
file in the attack.
OK, we don't have enough time to, uh,
we have just more few slides, uh?
We can explain it later,
but now I'm ready for your questions.
So. Go ahead, victor.
Yep, yes Sir, I was just curious so
I'm trying to figure out like in the
add subtract section like if the UM if
the parents waiting for the child anyways.
I'm trying to figure out like how
how does that give you any gain
like productivity wise?
Because like if you,
if you're just using a single processor,
then you know like why?
Why not just have the parent do it anyways?
If it has to transfer total
control over to the child,
like how are you gaining any like efficiency
there when we have just one single process?
Yeah, yeah.
So that's a very good question.
Actually.
In the lab 09 just released I mean the
morning if you read this same question
actually is going to be answered.
For the lab, OK,
you're right, you're right,
you're saying that why the patent does
doesn't do all these tasks why we need it?
I mean, creating a new child.
The process is the single process.
Why we do that?
The thing is that, uh.
Fish the wall up.
As we said. For instance,
one of the patterns tasks might be.
Scanner.
OK, so it's waiting for input input.
Another also inside the child.
For instance, we can have,
for instance, sending a huge
amount of file to another device.
So this is a kind of because in in the
in the lecture sign we have a question.
This is called IO bound task,
meaning that it is doing a lot of IO,
but it doesn't need processor.
So in these two cases, the processor either
might do busy waiting or I mean halting.
That's why you said that.
I mean, we can do other.
I mean task while they are waiting.
This is a very simple way to explain.
But there is another advantage
that if you read the labs or not,
you will understand that.
Yeah, OK, that makes sense Sir.
Thank you. Always.
So we have, uh, Kaden asked, what is 808?
I mean is that?
ASCII to integer.
So when you have a let me back,
yeah here.
This example because in the
argument you receive a character,
two one but you have to
make it the value to one.
So these are the ASCII code
becomes integers or a two I is
the library in the standard
library that can do that for you.
So we have a.
Kaden, uh? So how should we try?
Do we have to run the program to ask her?
OK, then says that no,
we have to run the process once,
so let me inside the example too.
So we have just a single program.
But inside this single program
we give the task of the child.
We give the task of the parent when you
run it at runtime it becomes two process.
So you write one program,
but at runtime is becoming two process,
so you don't have to run this program twice.
It automatically becomes two
process at runtime at this point,
at the four point.
Yeah exactly yeah at the at the point
that the fork happens it becomes 2.
Any other questions are so if there's
any question that I missed, OK,
we have Victor go ahead with her.
You go to the last couple of
slides that we went over, Sir.
So you were saying when the child
does execute path, it basically
inhabits the memory of the child.
But I feel like there's a pretty
slim chance that whatever you're
executing in that path has the same
memory space as the child did, right?
So if there's more or less
like if there's more,
I'm assuming that the the that the
kernel just allocates more memory,
and if there's like yes,
you're right there, right?
Yeah, yeah, that's that.
That's a good question.
I have to fix this one.
Yeah or I I had to explain more.
Yes, you're right.
For instance, the program file
inside here may have a code state.
CSA means this huge lines of code but
very small amount of data segment.
But child have only very small.
So what happens?
Yes, the kernel adjust that so
they cannot expand this space for
the program file inside the path.
But the idea is that again, all of them.
Consider funding cannot perspective
as a child process with the same PID.
But you're right,
this space is not expands to.
I mean to fill the program file in the path.
You're right, OK, gotcha.
And so if it doesn't have to expand
like say that the actual execution is
smaller than whatever the child is doing,
is it just do we just have some space?
That's just sort of left there?
Let me add The thing is, uh.
Uh, I would say I mean this the the
whole segments assigned to a program.
For this course it is fixed.
And if this is based on the address boss,
let me just quickly say that.
So basically, address means that
the address of a memory location,
so the address pause inside.
If you have a 32 bit address bus,
meaning that we can find.
2 to the power of 32 different
locations of the memory.
Today's Colonel assigned the whole.
Memory space to or any any process.
So it means that.
For our course,
we could say that you're right,
all the process can assign
a fixed amount of memory,
but the division between the
segments goes up and down.
It's diner,
for instance,
but the whole amount is fixed.
OK, gotcha. If you have a larger yes,
they can and may use the heap space.
To add to this code segment
of this new program file.
Because I mean the whole space is fixed,
so it should adjust other.
I mean it should add from
other segments to I mean to.
Accommodate the new program file.
Yeah. But this is my concern.
It is much more complex than that, right?
There is a very interested.
This is concept called paging.
If you don't have time to explain about that,
but in the course OS operating system.
Paging is discussed and.
Then you fully understand what's happening.
Gotcha, OK. Thank you Sir.
Noise.
So any other questions?
So if you don't have any question,
uh, you two vector,
I'm going to be in the office.
So if you have.
Uh, anything related to the course.
I'm happy to help you and
have a great day, so I have.